>> Hi.
I'm Richard Dolan and
this is False Flags.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We start with the sinking of the
American battleship, the Maine.
This was a major
event in its day.
It led directly to the
Spanish-American war
and America's conquest of Cuba,
Guam, and the Philippines.
But despite its importance
in world history,
the explosion that sank this
battleship is still a mystery.
Not surprisingly, it's
often been considered
to be a false flag, or at
least a possible false flag,
done by the United States
as a way to justify the war.
Let's take a look.
Cuba had been a colony
of Spain for a long time.
But by the late
1800s, Spanish power
was, well, not what
it had once been.
The Cubans hated Spanish rule.
Many Americans supported
Cuban independence
and of course,
Americans wanted to make
some money on that island.
So by 1898, the situation
was extremely tense.
Violent riots were common,
the whole situation
was ready to explode.
In that context, the
US sent a battleship
into Cuba's Havana
Harbor in January 1898.
That was the Maine.
Now, it's no mystery
why this happened.
President William McKinley,
who wanted to avoid war,
saw that the Spanish had
lost control of the island.
The Spanish governor
was a man named
General Weyler, who was
a brutal despot only
making things worse.
McKinley sent the Maine to
protect the American citizens
on the island,
that's what he said,
along with the American
sugar industry located there.
He called it a goodwill mission.
Just three weeks later,
on February 15th, 1898,
an explosion rocked
the Maine while it
was docked in the harbor.
266 crew members were
killed, only 89 survived.
The entire forward 1/3 of
the ship was destroyed,
mainly where the
ammunition was stored,
more than five tons
of powder charges
for the ship's big guns.
What remained of the ship sank
to the bottom of the harbor.
So what caused the explosion?
That's been the question.
Was it caused by some
accident within the ship
or was sabotage involved?
And if so, who did it?
President McKinley
immediately ordered
an official investigation.
It was known as
the Sampson Board.
The Sampson Board concluded that
sabotage seemed the most likely
cause, probably from a
mine in the harbor, which
would have triggered a larger
explosion in the ship's
forward magazines.
Witnesses had heard two
explosions and part of the keel
was bent inwards, as if
from an external force.
But the Sampson Board did not
assign guilt to any group,
like the Spanish government.
The American press,
on the other hand,
immediately pointed
fingers at Spain,
especially the tabloids--
the so-called yellow press--
which was cheap, widespread,
and very influential
over mass public opinion.
Now, it's interesting.
These newspapers were
very sensationalist, OK.
But they had more money
and more resources
than establishment papers
like the New York Times.
The New York World,
for instance,
owned by Joseph Pulitzer;
and the New York Journal,
owned by William
Randolph Hearst,
both of these newspapers sent
more journalists to the scene,
provided more detailed
coverage of the event
than did the New York Times.
To this day, their
information is invaluable
and has been used by later
investigators ever since.
But they also had an agenda,
and that agenda was war.
And that meant focus
on Spanish treachery.
The tabloids whipped the
public into a frenzy.
There was a slogan on everyone's
lips, remember the Maine,
to hell with Spain.
Before long, America was
at war with Spain, quickly
defeated them, and gobbled
up many colonial prizes.
Now, Spain did its
own investigation.
They didn't want a war with
America, that's for sure.
Not surprisingly, they
concluded the explosion
was an accident, an explosion
in the Maine's coal bunker,
which then ignited
the ammunition.
Too bad for the
Spanish investigators
they couldn't really get
too close to the ship
since the Americans
wouldn't let them.
In 1911, the US got
another look at the Maine
when they removed it
from Havana Harbor.
A new investigation came
to the same conclusion
as the Sampson Board, an
external explosion, probably
a mine.
But this was 1911, not the
war-crazed atmosphere of 1898.
It turns out that by
1911, no one was really
believing that the Spanish
government had been behind it.
It really never made sense.
Spain gained
nothing from the war
and knew beforehand
that they had no chance
to defeat the Americans.
Why would they do it?
So for years, this was
where matters stood--
in this hazy it was
probably a mine,
maybe it was Spain, but
maybe someone else category.
In the 1960s, there
were a few more studies
that supported the
sabotage theory.
The best researchers
could do was
to guess at who was behind it--
maybe some Cubans
who wanted America
to fight Spain, maybe a crazed
faction of Spanish officers
loyal to General Weyler,
the brutal governor.
But one study of
the 1970s concluded
that the explosion
was an accident caused
by an internal
fire and explosion.
In other words, what the
Spanish investigators
had originally concluded.
This was known as
the Rickover Study,
after the retired
US Admiral Hyman
Rickover who organized it.
Ever since, this has been more
or less the dominant theory
regarding the
sinking of the Maine.
But is it true?
Well, in 1995, the
Smithsonian Institution
published a study which strongly
supported the sabotage theory.
By this time, they actually
had new information, long
lost testimony from
what they described
as an unimpeachable witness.
This was Alexander Bryce,
an American diplomat
from that time.
Bryce had given testimony in
1911 but was basically ignored.
He had been in Cuba for many
years as an American diplomat.
He had an extensive
network of informants.
One of these informants was
a former Spanish officer
who told Bryce just days
before the explosion
that the fanatic officers
loyal to the brutal governor
General Weyler were planning
to blow up the Maine.
He didn't have details but knew
it was going to happen soon.
This is basically
where we stand today.
I have looked into this
as carefully as I can,
including reading some
of the technical studies.
My assessment is that the Maine
was the victim of sabotage,
all right--
that is, a mine
planted in the harbor.
If we were simply to look
at the strongest evidence,
we would have to conclude
that the so-called Weylerites,
the crazed Spanish
officers, were behind it.
If so, what a very, very
bad decision they made.
But here's the thing.
For the sinking of the
Maine to be a false flag,
it would have to have been
caused by the Americans
and there's never been any
evidence offered for this.
Accusations?
Oh, sure.
Yes, a few.
The government of
Cuba, for example,
still blames the Americans.
In the late '90s, an official
at the Havana City Museum
stated it as the US just using
a pretext to intervene in Cuba.
There is even a plaque
near the site that
describes the dead
sailors as victims
of quote "imperialist greed
in its effort to take over
the island of Cuba," end quote.
Some web-based
researchers also accuse
the US of being behind
the ship's sinking.
One person accused
Theodore Roosevelt,
then assistant
secretary of the Navy,
of ordering the Maine to
Havana behind his boss' back--
that is, behind President
McKinley's back.
But sorry, it didn't
happen like that.
Oh, yes, Roosevelt
wanted war, no question.
But McKinley ordered the
Maine into the harbor.
Roosevelt later ordered
US battleships into action
into the Philippines,
not to Cuba.
>> Teddy Roosevelt,
implacable foe of monopolies,
was a staunch advocate of
military preparedness under
the foreign policy which
he called speaking softly
and carrying a big stick.
>> The sinking of the Maine did
play perfectly into the hands
of American imperialists
eager for conquest.
They manipulated public
opinion for their purposes,
they learned that the
public responds well
to shocking events--
that is, very obediently.
Don't think that
lesson was lost.
Even though we can't call
the sinking of the Maine
a false flag, it offered
good training material
for the future.
It contained several key
elements that became important
for future false flags.
First, the dovetailing of state
goals with media propaganda.
Second, the immediate
identification of a culprit
and a call for violent action--
not by the government,
though, but by the press.
Also, we see the
creation of slogans
as a way to control and
energize the public.
There were no covert
ops teams here
and no direct control
over the media message,
those developments were
still in the future.
Now, false flags don't
have to include explosions
and dead bodies,
but they do include
fear and money and power.
In this case, I'm talking about
the financial scare of 1907.
In mid-October of that
year, a financial panic
shook Wall Street investors.
The stock market
dropped 50% from where
it had been a year before.
All this led to the creation
of the Federal Reserve Bank
just a few years later.
According to
conventional history,
the panic was triggered
by a failed scheme
to corner the stock of
the United Copper Company.
When it became apparent
that the attempt would fail,
banks that had lent
money to the scheme
suffered a loss of
public confidence, which
led to large cash withdrawals.
The bank runs quickly spread
to affiliated banks and trusts,
which within a week
led to the downfall
of the massive
Knickerbocker Trust Company.
That was New York City's
third largest trust.
The collapse of
the Knickerbocker
was a major financial event
and spread even more fear
throughout the nation
as regional banks
withdrew reserves from
the New York City banks.
The panic extended nationwide
as people withdrew deposits
from their regional banks.
Many bankruptcies followed.
Historians add that it was
only the direct intervention
of financier J.P. Morgan
that saved the day.
Morgan injected liquidity,
that is money, into the system.
Now, because there was
no official central bank
of the United States,
Morgan essentially
fulfilled that role.
This gave strong impetus
to an unpopular idea,
but something that powerful
bankers had wanted for years--
a strong central bank.
And this led directly to the
creation of the Federal Reserve
Bank in 1913.
That's the official
interpretation of events.
But there are arguments
that this interpretation is
very misleading and
that the Panic of 1907
might be one of the earliest
important false flags
of the modern era.
The basic claim is that
the panic was engineered
to create a central US bank.
The claim is that New
York bankers artificially
inflated the stock
market with easy loans.
When lending was then
tightened, the bubble
burst with stocks
crashing nearly 50%
and all the various
runs on the banks.
The mainstream press
used the financial panic
to make a case for establishing
a European-style central bank.
Within a few years, the
Federal Reserve Bank
was created, fulfilling
exactly that role.
The question we
must ask is, what
is the truth in this claim?
Well, there's no problem
finding motive, that's for sure.
Immediately following
the great panic,
J.P. Morgan, John
D. Rockefeller,
and other giants of the
world financial scene,
including Jacob Schiff, Paul
Warburg, and Nathan Mayer
Rothschild, all declared
that the lesson of the panic
was that the US
needs a central bank.
How convenient.
Only the most powerful
financial players in the world
all happening to agree.
Actually, less than a
year before the panic,
Jacob Schiff said
in a speech that
without a powerful central bank,
the US would experience, quote,
"the most severe and
far-reaching money panic
in its history," end quote.
Well, it soon did--
at least, up to that point.
After the panic, President
Theodore Roosevelt
appointed a National
Monetary Commission
to study the causes of the
panic and to make suggestions.
The chairman of the Commission
was Senator Nelson Aldrich,
father-in-law of
John D. Rockefeller,
Jr. It was Aldrich who set
up a secret meeting just
a few years later, in 1913.
He brought the world's most
powerful bankers together.
They arrived in secret at a
train station in New Jersey,
only using first
names supposedly
for a duck hunting trip.
With Aldrich were
the true masters
of the universe of their day--
financier Paul
Warburg, as well as
representatives of J.P. Morgan,
the Rothschilds in Europe,
Rockefellers, and so on.
They then took a private
rail car to a private club
in a place called
Jekyll Island, Georgia.
There, they devised their plan.
Knowing that Americans
hated the idea
of a powerful central
bank, something
that would have too much control
over the nation's economy,
they came up with the
nifty idea of creating
many smaller central banks
scattered across the country.
Eventually, this idea,
the Federal Reserve Act,
was passed in Congress when many
Members were home on vacation
and signed into law by
President Woodrow Wilson.
At the time of
the Fed's creation
and during the early
years of its existence,
there were a number
of individuals
who stated that
the Panic of 1907
was specifically engineered to
create a pretext for the Fed.
One was Senator Robert Latham
Owen, and one of the first two
senators from the
State of Oklahoma,
who called the Panic
of 1907 a deliberate
conspiracy for the enrichment
of those who engineered it.
This dovetailed
with the attitude
of Minnesota Congressman
Charles Lindbergh, Sr.--
yes, the father of
the famous aviator.
When debating the Federal
Reserve Act in Congress,
Lindbergh warned that it would
establish, quote, "the most
gigantic trust on Earth.
The worst legislative
crime of the ages
is perpetrated by
this bill," end quote.
He pointed out that the Fed
isn't public, but privately
owned; conducted, he said, for
the sole purpose of obtaining
the greatest possible profits
from the use of other people's
money--
which actually is true.
To this day, it's
very hard to get data
on specific
shareholders of the Fed.
But one oil industry insider
with connections to the House
of Saud, J.W. McAllister,
stated that 80% of the ownership
of the New York
Federal Reserve Bank--
that's easily the
most powerful branch--
is owned by just eight
families, four of which
live in the US, four in Europe.
We're talking Goldman
Sachs, Rockefellers,
Lehmans and Kuhn Loebs in the
US and the European contingent
being the Rothschilds,
the Warburgs,
and two other names maybe less
well-known but very powerful--
the Lazards in Paris and the
Israel Moses Sieffs in Rome.
And by the way, other
serious researchers
corroborate these claims.
When you see a financial
panic being instantly
used to create the most
powerful private banking power
elite the world has ever
seen, you have to ask,
did this all just
happen by chance?
I think the smart
money is on no.
>> Personalities
of the day John D.
Rockefeller enjoying his 93rd
year with three holes of golf
per outing.
He left business and
his multi-million dollar
philanthropies to younger hands.
Senate investigations
were making headlines.
It was J.P. Morgan on the
grill, telling the senators
yes, his banking had a
quarter of a billion dollars
in the till and no, he
had not an paid income
tax in the last two years.
>> Now let's talk about
the Lusitania in 1915.
In August 1914, war
broke out in Europe.
It soon became known as
the Great War, later to us
World War I. This was the most
awful, horrible, bloody war
the world had ever seen up until
then, causing so much death
and destruction that the phrase
lost generation was coined
accurately to describe it.
It pitted the United
Kingdom, France, and Russia--
known as the Allied powers--
against what were
called Central Powers--
that meant Germany and the
Austrian-Hungarian Empire,
basically central Europe--
against the
peripheries of Europe.
Across the Atlantic Ocean,
the great United States
just gazed at the carnage
without overtly taking sides.
>> The United States
must be neutral in fact,
as well as name.
Most Americans agree,
this is Europe's war.
And from the time of
George Washington,
we have been warned to stay
out of Europe's conflicts.
>> America had people from all
the combatant nations living
there.
Why get involved
in a terrible war
on the other side of a huge
ocean when you didn't need to?
Nearly a year into that
war, a German submarine
sunk a British passenger
ship, the RMS Lusitania,
off the coast of
southern Ireland.
1,195 people died,
including 128 Americans.
Children and babies died.
The shock was terrible
and greatly enraged
the American public opinion.
Americans nearly entered
the war then and there,
but President Wilson
held off the pressure
until two years later,
when America finally
did enter the war.
>> For three years, Woodrow
Wilson had compromised with
Germany and each new compromise
had brought new indignity.
Now his people wanted war.
>> Even then, the Lusitania
was one of the major reasons.
But what was the truth behind
the sinking of the Lusitania?
At the time, the
American public saw this
as pure, unmitigated
German treachery.
Killing innocent
civilians, including
hundreds of women and
children, didn't go over well
with the public, especially when
they were whipped into a frenzy
by the newspapers of the day.
But as is always
the case, reality
is a little more complex.
By May of 1915, the war
had become a nightmare
for all nations involved,
and not just in the trenches
where most of the
soldiers fought.
Also on the high seas.
Germany had declared the seas
around all of Great Britain
to be a war zone.
German submarines,
known as u-boats,
were taking out huge
amounts of British shipping.
>> Striking without warning,
German submarines begin to sink
Allied ships.
>> Every single week, 300,000
tons of British shipping were
being sunk by German u-boats.
One out of every four
steamers leaving Great Britain
never came back.
This was a major crisis.
So back to the Lusitania.
In the first place, it wasn't
just a huge passenger ship.
The Lusitania was doing
a bit more than just
carrying passengers.
In fact, what it was doing
was violating the rules
of warfare at the
time by transporting
war material for
the Allied armies,
including large
amounts of explosives.
The Germans were
well aware of this,
and indeed, the
Lusitania was registered
with the British fleet as an
auxiliary military vessel.
This status meant, in
fact, that it could
be fired on without warning.
So the Germans were mired
down on the Western Front
with the British
and French troops,
and here was the Lusitania
delivering ammunition
to the enemy.
The Germans also knew that
not just British subjects,
but Americans, also
regularly sailed on the ship.
And they didn't want to
stir any needless trouble
with the Americans.
So the German
Embassy in Washington
actually placed an advertisement
in 50 US newspapers
warning civilians not to
sail on the Lusitania.
Incredibly, the US
State Department
made sure that most of the
notices were not published.
At least one slipped
through, however,
in the Des Moines
Register, which
carried the German
ad warning Americans
not to get on the ship.
>> May 1st, 1915.
The luxurious British liner
Lusitania sails from New York.
Aboard are hundreds
of Americans.
They ignore a notice published
next to the announcement
of the ship's sailing,
a warning inserted
by the German government.
>> Travelers sailing in the war
zone do so at their own risk.
>> It was very up front.
There was a state of war
existing between Britain
and Germany, the ad said,
and that zone of war
included the waters next
to the British Isles.
Any vessels flying the flag
of Great Britain or her allies
were quote, "liable to
destruction in those waters
and that travelers
sailing in the war zone
on the ships of Great
Britain or her allies
do so at their own
risk," end quote.
OK.
So the Germans gave fair
warning, but where's
the false flag in all of this?
Well, one thing we
can do-- as always--
is ask the question,
who benefits?
Well, there were two
main beneficiaries.
One was the British government
itself and more generally,
the Allied powers.
After all, Britain
was on the ropes
and really needed America to
enter the war on its side.
But another beneficiary
with just as much motivation
were the major bankers,
specifically J.P. Morgan.
It is not outrageous
to think that they
could have acted in concert,
or at least with some sort
of loose understanding.
First, let's look
at the bankers.
During the war,
England and France
didn't just throw millions
of men into the fight.
They had to pay for all of this,
which was incredibly expensive.
To do so, they borrowed heavily
from American investors.
That is Americans would purchase
British and French government
bonds to finance
their war effort
and those bonds would be
paid back with some interest.
To sell their bonds, the
British and French governments
had a go-to guy to
sell them, J.P. Morgan,
one of the most powerful
bankers in the world
and incidentally a key partner
of the Rothschild banking
dynasty.
Not only that, but Morgan also
acted as a purchasing agent
for those governments in
buying weapons and munitions
from the US.
Very nice for J.P. Morgan,
to be sure, which by the way
he was also doing not simply
for Britain and France,
but with business in
Russia, Italy, and Canada.
But it gets better.
J.P. Morgan controlled
countless holding companies,
and through these owned
many of the manufacturing
firms that had contracts
for military production.
If you want to know the
origin of the modern military
industrial complex,
look no further.
Morgan and his companies
were making a fortune
literally every
single day off the war
and were doing it in
every possible way--
purchasing, selling,
and producing.
>> But is America truly neutral?
Germany sees that
the vast resources
of the American
industry machine--
the food, the
munitions, the loans--
are keeping Germany's enemies
fighting in the field.
>> But by early 1915, things
were looking bleak for Britain.
The constant loss of
its shipping fleet
from German u-boats
was a major crisis.
What would happen to
the British government?
There was a real concern that
the Brits would lose the war.
By spring of 1915, Morgan
wasn't able to find new buyers
for the Allied war bonds
because if Britain lost the war,
the Allies would
default on their bonds
and all that big money
Morgan was making would end.
Not only that, but his
investors would suffer losses
estimated as high
as $1.5 billion,
which in 1915 was an
unbelievable amount of money.
And of course, all of Morgan's
war production companies
would stop making weapons
and maybe go out of business.
So this was an
urgent situation--
bizarre, twisted, but from
Morgan's point of view urgent.
So on May 1st,
1915, the Lusitania
left New York City for a
week-long voyage to Britain.
Some serious
researchers now believe
that Morgan realized something
important, if the Germans were
to sink the ship the Americans
would be furious, perhaps
so furious that they
would enter the war
on the side of the Allies.
And if that were to happen,
not only would Allied bonds
be in great demand again, but
Morgan's war companies would
be busier than ever
because now they
would have millions
of American soldiers
to prepare for the Great War.
Problem solved.
Six days later, on
May 7th, the Lusitania
approached within 12 miles
of the southern Irish coast.
The Lord of the
British Admiralty
was 41-year-old
Winston Churchill.
Churchill knew all about
what the German u-boats were
doing, obviously.
In fact, he knew in
the past two days
that three ships had
just been sunk right
where the Lusitania now was.
Did Churchill make sure
that the Lusitania had
the protection of her
escort, or perhaps knowing
there were hundreds of
civilians on the ship
and knowing that the
Lusitania was illegally
carrying both civilians and
weapons at the same time
that he would at least do his
best to protect the ship as it
approached the UK, especially
since the Germans had already
issued their warning?
You'd think so.
But in fact, Churchill
did the opposite.
He actually ordered the assigned
escort to the Lusitania,
a destroyer named Juno,
to return to harbor.
The Lusitania was even
ordered to shut down
one of its four boilers,
supposedly to save coal.
But of course, this reduced
her speed considerably.
She was just sitting out
there totally exposed,
and Churchill knew it.
May 7th, 1915.
The Lusitania is sunk.
128 Americans are lost.
Now there is a sense of
crisis in Washington.
>> With all of these early
potential false flag cases,
we have to recognize that
evidence comes to us in little
pieces here and there.
But it's always worth
asking, who benefits?
And in this case, without
a doubt, the bankers
and the British government.
Moreover, the actions of the
Royal Navy under Churchill
are highly suspicious and
not easily explainable.
They're exactly the
kind of anomalies
we look for in false flags.
It's true that the United
States did not immediately
enter the war after the
sinking of the Lusitania,
but not everything
goes according to plan.
Within two years, however, the
nonstop anti-German propaganda
barrage had seriously altered
public opinion and the House
of Morgan, the
House of Rothschild,
and all the other
major banking houses
could then be delighted by
America's entry into the war.
The slaughter and misery
meant huge profits and power
for them.
>> Huge wars send American
factories working overtime.
More and more
workers are needed.
Higher wages
result. Europe's war
is making America prosperous.
>> When we look at these
events of a century ago,
several of them
genuine false flags,
we find that the world back then
operated very much as the world
operates today.
What appears on the surface
is very, very different
from what goes on beneath.
We're all wiser
when we realize this
because such patterns
never change.
Join me next time
on False Flags, when
we look at how with total
control of the media,
skilled covert operatives,
and no scruples
the Nazis helped to pioneer
the modern false flag.
Some people might think
that all this talk
about false flags and
nasty government activities
is upsetting.
What I would say
is this, the art
of personal development
for each one of us
requires us to shed the many
illusions that have surrounded
us all our lives.
Illusions are painful to
shed, but once they're
gone we enter a
truly higher reality.
So don't fear the red
pill because if you
seek transformation,
you need truth
as your constant companion.
I'm Richard Dolan
until next time.